The profile defines four timing-related parameters for initiating case reports from Electronic Health Records (the standard does not specify the hour value for the delay of the send - public health operations will determine the specific value appropriate for implementation) the standard conveys the parameters to clinical care but it does not require their implementation.

* Delay initial eICR construction (for example 1 hour) - the time after start of the encounter when the trigger events would not immediately cause an eICR to be composed and sent. (This delay is intended to allow adequate data to be recorded in the EHR, but is not so long as to delay reporting in critical circumstances.)  If there is a trigger and the encounter is closed before the specified delay value (for example the encounter is closed in 30 minutes when the specified delay value is 1 hour) the eICR should be created and sent.
* eICR reportable check period (for example 6 hours) - the time interval on which reportability should be checked after the initial reportability check. If the event is reportable then the eICR should be created and sent, otherwise, if the encounter is still open then check reportable should be scheduled again at the specified interval (for example 6 hours from the time of the current check).
* eICR periodic update (for example 24 hours) - the time after an initial eICR creation to send new eICRs as updates during long encounters. (These updates should only be produced until the end of the encounter).
* eICR encounter close-out (for example 24 hours or 0 hours for no delay) - the time after the end of an encounter for a final eICR to be sent when there has been one or more trigger events in the encounter. (The close-out eICR is intended to provide the full data available at the end of an encounter.)