#### added submodule: - done

git submodule add https://github.com/Healthedata1/FHIR-IGPub-filebuilder
git submodule add https://github.com/Healthedata1/IG-Template

#### fix Mappings -  done
#### fix headers - done
#### move page.html to root.  ( see ig doc in wiki) - done

#### remove unneeded stuff for now and add extensions  - ?

#### add static TOC right margin  -  on hold  -for now either in  breadcrumbs done

Future move to a dropdown menu over to sidebar - still a wip since need the the hamburger menu to work as well centering the header and navbar is posing a problem. would remove breadcrumbs in this case.

1. fix css  -done
project.css  ul.sidebar-nav

    1. fix background color remove for now
    1. fix padding 5px
    1. fix width so does not overlap 235px
    1. font size

1. add to IG-template  -done
    1. update CSS
        project.css  ul.sidebar
    1. add to header?


#### update ig.xml

1. create template.py file - add ig.json and ig.xml default templates
1. lists for autogenerated pages.
1. capture TOC for all non autogenerated pages
    - change all `<!-- { :.no_toc } -->` to `<!-- { :.no_toc } -->`
      - before publishing be sure to change back
    - copy paste all TOC html (using Google inspect is easiest) to TOC.html
      - prefix the relative page address to the links
      - remove the anchor from the top levet link so shows the title bar.
   - create xlst for TOC to ig.xml
   - update ig.xml

1. update filemaker to add all conformance resources to ig.xml - done!

1. fix editing file source notes to start with 'file source: '  so can do a find/replace.  - done in definitions.py

1. fix caret-color - done finally!

1. fix capstatements - done!

1. fix bookmarks using parameters instead of front matter. - done

1. run on latest igpub - done!

1. stub in RR Mappings - done !

1. remove the lm for now  - done !

1. consolidate templates  using liquid tagging. and update the ig.json accordingly  -done

1.  add cool go to top menu button when scroll download


1. remove extra constraints to Titles and narrative - minimal needed. -done

1. crossmappings
    - fix trigger code representation in crossmappings  .... done
     - mapping links to datatypes or data elements   -done
       - add profiles next to resources -done
       - create a formula to create md links  -done
     1. mappings for RR - todo

1. create extension for valueAddress ( in lieu of referencing Location )  -done

1. level of granularity?

1. fix intros

1. create a todo.html - done

1. make search a todo.html

1. make summary a todo.html default for now or make optional
  1. generate summaries
     - python script to read sd. diff

         - table of elements ,cardinalities, bindings
         - hand alter the rest.

1. explore other represenations - done  json  works but is all or nothing proposition.  you can unselect using the menu item.  future option

1. the formal definitions tabs aren't sticking  - need an active class

1. Use xlst to make for ig.xml done whew!

1. organize pages into folders? ...  

1. update reference to ballotted version of US-Core - done
   - updated url  ci build - will croak if empty
   - udpate the  defintions file with latest build in uscore-ballot dir.

1. fix references to extension for travel address - done

1. change all file names from eicr to ecr

1. hand edit SD for profiles based on US-Core profiles  erc-condition, encounter and location -done

1. updating composition -done

1. valueset for preg status and  occupation hx -

1. update encounter and to use ecr-location -done
